>> Melkey: We are almost there.
All we have to do is kind of route
our application to then read
the file structure here.
That goose up command, we're gonna
run it in our application first, and
we are gonna run it in
the database.go file.
So if you go back to your database.go,
again, ignore this little error here.
I'm gonna have to restart my LSB.
>> Melkey: Underneath our open function,
we're gonna create a few more functions,
or two more functions.
The first one is gonna be called migrate.
So we're going to do func migrate.
This migrate function is
going to take two arguments.
So dg, so we're gonna pointer sequel.db.
>> Melkey: Okay, it's also gonna take
a directory, which can be a string,
and it's going to return an error.
>> Melkey: Like so.
>> Melkey: So this migrate function
is gonna have a very simple purpose.
It's gonna tell goose what
database we're using, and
it's also going to tell it exactly what
we want to do, which is run goose up.
So here we can do error,
is going to be goose.setdialect, like so.
It should bring in the goose package for
you, okay?
I have to make sure mine is v3.
We do actually have to bring it into
a project, because we installed it to have
the goose command, but
we also to do a Go get on the command now.
So if you do go back to goose, instead of
doing Go install, let's also run a Go get.
Okay, cool.
Now you can see it's imported as goose and
not used.
So now I know there's no import issue,
it's just, the compiler is yelling at me,
which I'm fine with.
So here we'll do goose.SelectDialect.
And this is basically telling
goose what we're using,
which is going to be Postgres.
Like so, we'll check if
error does not equal to nil.
We're going to return fmt.Errorf, okay?
I'm gonna say issue with migrates.
We're just gonna say, migrate,
>> Melkey: Modulo w,
them and pass in the error.
Okay, next we're gonna do error.
I'm going to equal this to goose.up.
We'll do goose.up, I'll pass in
the database and then the directory.
>> Melkey: If error does
not equal to nil here,
all we're gonna do is return fmt.Errorf.
All right, I'm gonna say,
goose up module W, pass in the error.
Like so, and then we'll just return nil.
There's no errors at this point.
Okay, now, the last part we
gotta do is be fairly quick.
We have to now bind in that FS,
that file structure.
So all we've done so far is tell goose
what we're using and what command to run,
which is goose.up.
The last part is to bind that
migrations package we have.
So here we'll just call this MigrateFS(),
okay?
It's going to take sql.db.
It will take MigrationsFS(),
which is going to be of type.fs,
we can bring this into
our library using IO/FS.
At the top there in the import statements.
And I'm goinna bring in
our directory string.
And this is gonna return an error for us.
>> Melkey: Okay, so
here we're gonna set a function.
We're gonna set the base file structure,
and
then we're actually gonna call
the Migrate function we wrote below.
So here we'll do goose.SetBaseFS.
We'll put in the MigrationsFS, like so.
And then we're gonna create a defer func,
an anonymous function.
We'll do defer,
which we've already talked about, and
then we'll create our anonymous
function func, right?
The body of our function here,
which is gonna be just
goose.Set Base back to nil.
This does not require any
additional arguments,
which is what these parentheses will mean,
okay?
And then, we'll return Migrate like so,
I'm gonna pass in our DB and
our directory.
Cool, okay, so now we have MigrateFS.
We have Migrate.
The last part is to hook
this all up into our app.go.
So if we go into app.go,
>> Melkey: Okay, the only
part that I think would make sense to
add this is is right above the logger.
And here we can do,
error is going to be store.MigrateFS,
when it passed in our database, pgdb.
We're also going to bring in our
migrations package, so migrations.fs,
that variable we declared.
So, .fs, okay?
And then the directory
is going to be just dot.
So we're gonna be running this
from the base of our directory.
That's where we can find
the migrations package for goose here.
>> Melkey: Now, if error does not
equal to nil, we can just panic.
Cuz if our database doesn't work,
application definitely
should not work as well.
>> Melkey: There's one more thing I want
to do, and that's gonna be to run this.
So we have all these migration files.
We've set them all, and
they look like they work.
Now, if we go back,
we should still have, let me see.
Did I bring it down?
I did.
So here, let's bring everything down.
And what I want to do is, again,
let's go docker compose build up.
>> Melkey: It's gonna run
our workout DB container.
And then here, if you run Go, run main.go.
You should see we have a few things.
Connect it to our database and
we have these three okays, okay?
For users, workouts, and our entries.
And you should see now, successfully
migrated database to version three,
because we have three SQL files,
all with the goose statement begin and
goose up command.
One more thing that we can do is now
we can actually use PSQL, right?
So this is the thing, you can use any
kind of DBUI that you'd like, but
PSQL is the one I use.
Here's the command- usual be Postgres.
The host is localhost, and
the port is 54 through d2.
So if I run this, it should ask me for
the password for Postgres.
That's just Postgres.
If I run this, you can see,
PSQL version 17.4, server 12.4.
That's important because
that's the image that we have.
And now if you do forward slash DT,
you can see that we have our users table,
our workout entries table, our workouts
table, and the actual GooseDB version.
So we've kind of completed the loop
here of now having our database spun up,
our back and
connected to our database, and
us actually inserting new SQL
schemas into the database itself.